(upbeat music playing)
(tires screeching)
Sorry to cut your
evening short, ladies.
Don't be.
Who's this high-value fugitive?
Hans Mattis.
GREGORIO:
Hit man, right?
Prime suspect
in the assassination
of that SEAL commander.
Yeah, Mattis arrived
at the airport under an alias.
Homeland caught him
on surveillance.
He took a cab
and was dropped off here
ten minutes ago.
So he's close.
Yeah, and dangerous.
All right, we got
to get a visual on him
and follow him.
Is Pride coming?
He's coordinating with Homeland.
He'll be here soon.
Let's gear up.
No body armor, Sebastian.
We need to blend in.
Right.
Look, we're gonna have
to split up, all right?
Keep the comms open.
If you spot Mattis,
don't engage unless provoked.
Understood?
Got it.
Let's roll.
Okay.
I-I'll just go this way.
*
SEBASTIAN:
Suspect spotted on Toulouse.
Ah, he made me.
He's heading east down...
(car horn honks)
he's heading east down Royal.
I'm in pursuit.
All right, keep your distance.
On our way.
(tires screech)
(horn honks)
MAN: Hey!
*
I'm on St. Peter.
Federal agent! Freeze!
Where are you, Sebastian?
SEBASTIAN (over comms):
Mattis ducked down an alley.
I'm in pursuit.
SONJA:
What alley, Sebastian?
Where are you?
GREGORIO:
Hold up! Wait for backup.
SEBASTIAN:
Oh, my God. I'm taking fire!
Where, Sebastian? Where?
SEBASTIAN:
Stop! NCIS!
(two gunshots)
(gasps)
(bystanders screaming)
Sebastian.
You all right?
He's dead.
That's not Mattis.
He had a gun.
He had a gun,
he was gonna shoot me.
Okay, okay.
So, then, where's the gun?
WOMAN:
Dave?! Dave!
Dave!
No, no, no,
no, no, no, no.
What are you doing?
Dave? Dave!
Get her out
of here.
Dave, no!
Dave!
* Boom, boom, boom, boom
* Bang, bang, bang, bang
* How, how, how, how
* Hey, hey
* You gotta come on.
(siren wailing)
(sobbing)
(indistinct radio chatter)
Don't torture yourself,
Sebastian.
That's-that's his wife.
Should I say something?
No.
Let NOPD do their job.
You find, uh,
you find gunshot residue on him?
You know we can't
talk about this.
I saw you swab his hands,
though.
Yeah, too early to be sure.
That's a no.
Just... just tell me
that you found something. Okay?
Please.
Some fibers,
maybe a little plastic,
under the fingernails.
And again, we can't
be talking about this.
Sebastian.
I've been speaking with every
NOPD officer on the scene.
They know how important it is
to recover that missing weapon.
Okay. I'm gonna wrap this up.
Then I'm gonna take
you home, Sebastian.
You okay?
I was, uh, I was
in pursuit of Mattis
through the-the courtyard.
He ducked into this alley,
then, uh, he took a shot at me
as I was rounding...
I tried to round
the corner.
Then I felt a bullet
whiz past my head, but...
But, Sebastian...
are you okay?
No.
I-I shot someone.
I know.
I, uh, moved over
to... to this corner
and I identified myself.
That's when
I saw the gun.
He was, he was
pointing it right at me
and I took two shots,
but it wasn't Mattis.
They said his name was
Dave Dawson.
(sobbing): No, please,
please, please, please, no!
No!
What did I do?
You did what
you were trained for.
All right?
Let's get you out of here.
Get you
away from this.
SEBASTIAN:
So what now?
PRIDE:
You go home.
You're on administrative duty
until NOPD clears the scene
and FBI starts
their investigation.
FBI?
It's routine.
And it's okay.
'Cause you saw a gun.
Yes, I-I did, Pride, I swear.
I know.
GREGORIO:
Hey.
Wade's parked around the corner
waiting for you.
You know, away from the crowd.
Um...
NOPD's gonna need your weapon.
Right.
It's... it's evidence now.
(sighs)
Come on, baby.
Walk you out.
This is on me, King.
We should've went in pairs.
I mean, Mattis is
a dangerous assassin
and Sebastian's still a probie.
Don't Monday morning
quarterback, Christopher.
Y'all did your job.
And we're gonna
continue doing it.
Keep gathering evidence.
SONJA:
Yeah.
That's a problem.
There's no gun
on the scene, King.
And we couldn't find the slug
in the wall where
the bullet should be.
I mean, there's
not even a mark.
Well, what about surveillance?
None of that, either.
No cameras.
All we have
is Sebastian's story.
Well, the gun's got
to be somewhere.
Unless it's not.
It's possible
Sebastian made a mistake.
WADE:
You need to stop
obsessing about this.
Honestly, I-I don't think
that I can.
I mean, every time I
close my eyes, I just...
I see Dave
Dawson's face.
Well, you've been involved
in a shooting, Sebastian.
It's gonna take time
to process.
Okay, I'll make that tea.
I just... You know, all
that-that FLETC training
and the manuals
and the target practice...
I had no idea that it would,
it would feel like this.
How could you have?
Training isn't real.
It doesn't take into account
adrenaline or fear
or a dozen
other variables.
But it prepares you,
like it did last night,
to take action when you need to.
See, that's what
I keep wondering.
You know, did I need to?
Or am I just another one
of those cops
that you see on the news,
who-who overreacted
and made the wrong call?
You defended yourself,
Sebastian.
End of story.
(sighs)
I guess.
Look...
it's gonna take time to cope
with these feelings.
It... it won't happen
this morning.
(Sebastian sighs)
Maybe you need
a little distraction.
Watch a movie
or play a video game.
Yeah, maybe you're right.
Good.
(sighs)
Details of the incident
are forthcoming,
but we can confirm that a man
was shot and killed
last night by a federal agent.
It's being said that
the victim was a tourist.
I cannot confirm
that information yet.
However, as acting mayor,
my promise
to the citizens of New Orleans
is that the truth of what
happened here will come out.
PRIDE:
NOPD had no luck finding
the gun Sebastian saw.
I'm hoping that
you all did better.
Well, we were out there
all morning.
Didn't find a gun or any
evidence there ever was a gun.
Interviewed dozens
of witnesses.
Plenty saw Sebastian
chasing Mattis.
No one saw the shooting,
let alone Dawson with a gun.
But they all agree
on one thing.
They heard two
shots out there.
That's all.
Number of times Sebastian fired.
SONJA: Hey, we're doing
the best we can right now.
If there is a gun,
we'll find it.
We all know how exacting
Sebastian is.
He says he saw a gun,
no ifs about it.
It was there.
We need to go back out
to the crime scene
and reinterview
the witnesses.
All right, we can
do that, but...
Clock is ticking, okay?
High-profile shooting
involving a federal agent.
We've all seen how the media
plays this out.
Conclusions are gonna get
jumped to real soon
if we don't find something
to back up Sebastian's story.
Okay, but there's two dozen cops
out there.
All due respect,
you go out there now,
you're only gonna
get in the way.
SONJA:
We got other problems,
like a hit man
that's still at large
and a trail
that's gone cold.
All right. All right,
what do we know about Mattis?
He's wanted in seven
different countries
for a dozen assassinations.
If he's in New Orleans,
he's got a target here.
Any known accomplices?
He travels with a
forged passport,
gets his equipment in
whatever city he's operating.
He has to have help.
Maybe Dave Dawson.
Dawson's a 37-year-old machinist
out of Fort Worth.
No criminal record.
He and his wife were in town
on a romantic getaway--
the farthest they've been
outside of Texas.
Not exactly international
assassin material.
The only thing Dawson
and Mattis have in common
is that they were
in the same place
at the wrong time last night.
But Dawson pulled a gun
on Sebastian
while he was pursuing
a wanted fugitive.
Now, may be a coincidence,
but it just feels like
there's more to it than that.
And I have a feeling you're
too close to the situation.
Isler.
What are you doing back in town?
And a pleasant hello
to you, too, Percy.
You're here for Sebastian?
Can we have a word?
PRIDE:
Hey.
I want to make this as easy
as possible on all of us.
All right?
Okay.
No games.
No funny business.
We go by the book,
to the letter,
and we get it over with.
D.C. sends a deputy director
to investigate a shooting.
Does that sound
"by the book" to you?
'Cause to me i-it sounds
like an overreaction.
Dwayne.
I'm not a director anymore.
I'm a special agent,
just like you.
They demoted you.
After our Russian misadventure
the last time
I was down here.
Now, they gave me
two options.
Resign or reassign.
And I'm not ready to give up
my career, not yet.
I'm sorry for your troubles,
Raymond.
But I can't say I'm sorry you're
here to work on Sebastian's case
because together
we can clear him fast.
Look, you're not listening to
me. We're not working together.
I'm here under
official capacity
under strict orders:
collect evidence
and hold Special Agent Lund
accountable.
Well, that won't be a problem
'cause Sebastian acted properly.
Yeah, well, for his sake,
I hope you're right.
What do you mean?
That means leave
the Dave Dawson shooting to me.
He could be connected
to our fugitive hit man.
That's why he pulled
a gun on Sebastian.
There's a lot of assumptions
in that statement.
There's something
you need to see.
(sighs)
SEBASTIAN:
Stop! NCIS!
This footage was shot
behind Dawson's back.
You can't see a gun here.
Play it again.
Slow motion.
(slowed):
NCIS!
Play it as many times you want
at any speed you want.
You still won't see a gun.
Doesn't mean
it's not there.
We got another
big problem.
This has been viewed
over 25,000 times already.
It's going viral.
Federal agent shoots an unarmed
tourist in the French Quarter.
I don't need to tell you
the damage that this footage...
No, you don't.
PRIDE: Did you get some rest?
SEBASTIAN: Not really.
You know, there's
a lot on my mind,
like what's about
to happen in here.
Nothing to worry about.
Isler is gonna ask you some
questions, you'll answer 'em.
Any advice on
how to answer?
Honestly, Sebastian,
that's how.
Nice to see you again,
Special Agent Lund.
I'm sorry it's under
these circumstances.
You're welcome to watch
from observation.
You're nervous?
SEBASTIAN:
Yeah, I am. I'm sorry.
ISLER:
It'd be weird if you weren't.
Now...
in your own words,
what happened last night?
Okay, um, it was
a surveillance operation
of Hans Mattis
in the French Quarter.
Um, the suspect made me
and then fled.
I chased after him.
Um, when I announced myself
as a federal agent...
"Hans Mattis took
a shot at you.
You pursued him into an alley
where you shot Mr. Dawson."
It's from your official
statement, Special Agent Lund.
I want to know what happened.
I... I don't understand.
I remember being
in your shoes.
Was fresh out of Quantico,
my first pursuit,
chasing the suspect,
adrenaline starts pumping,
the bullet starts flying,
and your whole world
turns upside down.
Yeah, that sounds
about right.
You say that Hans Mattis
took a shot at you,
but you don't actually remember
seeing that happen, do you?
No. I-I felt the bullet
pass by my ear,
but I didn't see Mattis
pull the trigger, no.
So, you turned into an alley,
having just barely escaped
a bullet to your head,
you say Mr. Dawson
was holding a gun on you.
Yeah, he was.
You sure?
I am.
As sure as you are that
Hans Mattis took a shot at you
in the first place?
I mean, I-I know what I saw.
I assume...
that you have seen this.
Stop! Freeze!
Yeah, I've seen that.
You don't see the gun,
but-but Dawson has it.
See, that's the problem.
I have forensic
analysis here.
No GSR, no bullet casing,
no slug.
I have two dozen
witness statements.
No one saw Dave Dawson
with a gun, except you.
You, Sebastian,
the one person who shouldn't
be expected
to remember this.
I'm telling you,
Dawson had a gun.
And the evidence
doesn't support that.
From what I see,
or more precisely,
what I don't see here,
it appears
that no one fired on you.
It's not true.
Are you willing to swear to that
under oath in front of a jury?
A jury? Are y... are you
bringing me up on charges?
I'm collecting facts.
And the facts say
that you shot a man
who appears to be unarmed.
And if that holds up,
you will absolutely
be brought up on charges.
Nothing anyone
can do about that.
Wh... wh-what does that mean?
It means that until
this inquiry is resolved,
NCIS has authorized me
to collect your badge.
What the hell was that?
I'm surprised I made it
out of the squad room
without you jumping me.
You just ambushed
Sebastian.
I was just doing my job.
I got nothing personal
against your boy.
That was all kinds
of personal.
Lund is green
in the field.
He was in a heightened
situation, alone,
without backup.
He was scared and he
shot an unarmed man.
Now, that's not personal;
that's reality.
You need to back off.
Why?
Because we worked a few cases
together, bent a few rules,
because cops look out
for cops, why?
Because Sebastian
says Dawson was armed
and I'm gonna prove it.
Pride, no...
Pride, Pride.
You're gonna pursue
your missing assassin
and you're gonna leave
the Dawson shooting alone.
Do you hear me?
I know what this is.
You're pissed at me, right?
You lost your job.
You think it's my fault.
That's fine.
But leave Sebastian
out of this.
Hey, hey, I'm not the
one that you need
to be worried about here.
What do you mean by that?
That means stay out of my way.
Now, you want to help Lund,
you get him a good lawyer.
You stay in your lane
and do not interfere
in my investigation.
Where's Sebastian?
He ducked out
when you chased after Isler.
Didn't say a word
about the interview,
but I'm guessing
it didn't go well.
We've been officially warned
off the Dawson investigation.
Wait, so we're supposed to stop
trying to clear Sebastian?
No. We'll do it on the QT,
right, Pride?
Well, we're not giving up.
We're also not gonna get
in the FBI's way,
officially or unofficially.
Well, whatever we're gonna
do, we'd better do it fast.
The video
of Sebastian shooting
is spreading like wildfire.
The city is gonna start
calling for his head.
And if I'm right and Dawson
is connected to Hans Mattis...
We find Mattis,
we prove the connection.
And exonerate Sebastian.
LASALLE:
Finding Mattis
is the problem.
Patton's been going
through surveillance cameras
in the Quarter all day, no luck.
That's Mattis' M.O.
Got a well-protected target
impossible to get,
Mattis is your guy.
He slips in, he slips out.
I mean, how is it this guy
never leaves any evidence?
He's like a ghost.
But he's not a ghost.
He's a man.
And every man leaves a trace,
especially when you
disrupt his plan.
Give me good news, P.
Surveillance cameras
came up nil,
so I dove into the NOPD's
radio chatter
after the shooting.
I figured someone
might've reported Mattis
fleeing the scene.
You got a hit?
Not on Mattis
but on a black Camry
that was stolen two
blocks from the scene.
What, you think
Mattis stole the car?
If that's the case, he'd be
halfway to Mexico by now.
No, actually,
he's still in New Orleans.
NOPD's license plate reader
just tagged
the black Camry in the Marigny.
Plate doesn't match
make or model.
Got to be Mattis.
Steals a car and changes
the plates to a different one
to cover his tracks.
If he stuck around
knowing we're chasing him,
he could be staying
to complete his mission.
Then we got to stop him
from pulling that trigger.
Where's the car now, Patton?
On Esplanade.
Let's roll.
MAN:
Yo, check it out.
It's NCIS.
What y'all doing here?
Sir, gonna have to
ask you to move on.
No way.
Listen,
we're on official business,
so we'll need you to leave.
MAN:
Or what?
You gonna shoot me?
Come on, everybody,
get your phones out.
Gregorio, forget about it.
Help us out with the car.
We're not gonna forget
about what's going on.
Everyone needs to see this.
Car's engine is still warm.
All right, search the area. He's
got to be around here somewhere.
Yeah, it's gonna be a problem
with our little fan club
over here.
MAN:
Come on, man,
take your phone out.
They're up to something.
All right, everyone,
you need to disperse now.
We're not going anywhere.
This is not a request.
There's a dangerous fugitive
in the area.
Yeah. You.
Okay, you made your point.
You got your videos.
Please move
before anybody gets...
WOMAN: Get out,
get out, get out!
(woman screams)
Get out of the way!
Out of the way!
Go up.
Come on,
come on, come on.
Let's go. Everybody out.
Quick. Shh, shh, shh, quiet.
If Mattis was here,
he's gone now.
Yeah, he was here, all right.
King.
Come take a look at this.
PRIDE:
Laura Dawson.
Dave Dawson's widow.
GREGORIO:
Why would Mattis
kill Dawson's wife?
'Cause Pride's right.
Dawson's connected to Mattis.
Still no idea why.
But we're one step closer
to clearing Sebastian's name.
Laura Dawson's throat
was slit from ear to ear,
severing her carotid artery.
She bled out instantly.
Gonna assume you didn't find
any forensic evidence
pointing to our missing hit man,
Mattis?
Aside from expert knife work,
no.
Uh, I did, however,
find trace fibers
underneath
Mrs. Dawson's fingernails,
similar to that of the ones
found on her husband's body.
What kind of fibers?
Some sort of industrial plastic,
but without Sebastian,
I had to send the sample
to outside experts
for more details.
Be nice to get
him back, Dwayne.
Working on it, Loretta.
NOPD cordoned off
a mile radius of the crime scene
after we found Mrs. Dawson.
Mattis still managed
to escape.
We were on top of them,
how did they get away again?
Well, the lookie-loos
didn't help.
Mattis could have slipped
off into the crowd.
Why would he go
out of his way
to kill Dawson's wife?
No idea, but it makes
the connection
between Dawson and Mattis.
Yeah, but it's not enough
to prove
Sebastian was justified
in shooting him.
We need evidence.
Like the gun Sebastian
saw Dawson holding.
All right, well, what if
Laura took the gun?
In the chaos of
the shooting last night?
Well, I was at the scene, King.
I mean, she didn't go
within ten feet
of her husband's body.
Yeah, but you weren't there
when he went down.
The gun could have
skittered in her direction.
Even if she took it,
she would have tossed it
as soon as she had a chance.
Well, maybe she never
had the chance.
She was with the police
all day being interviewed.
They wouldn't have gone
through her purse.
And then she was escorted
back to her hotel
just before we showed up.
Is that why Mattis
went to her room?
What's so special about this gun
to risk getting caught?
Well, Mattis has a job in town.
That's why he's still here.
And if he killed Laura Dawson
for that gun,
it means he might need it
to complete his mission.
A lot of ifs and maybes.
So let's prove it.
Somebody out there has
a target on their back,
somebody worthy
of Mattis' skill set.
Means a VIP. High security.
We'll look for matches.
Yeah, I'll dig into
the Dawsons again
and see if we can find
a connection to Mattis.
No, leave the Dawsons
out of it.
Isler made it clear
it's not our case.
We'll honor that. Understood?
Yes.
All right.
Yeah.
Thank you.
Miss Loretta.
Something tells me
you're not gonna leave
the Dawsons alone.
Sebastian said
there was a gun.
But there's
no forensic evidence.
Going back to
that crime scene.
NOPD and FBI forensic agents
were all over that scene.
What do you think
you're gonna find?
Not me. Sebastian.
He's the one expert who
hasn't been all over it
and the only one I trust.
Sebastian's shaken up,
Dwayne, and you know that.
And I don't blame him.
There's video of the shooting
on loop everywhere he turns.
I know, Loretta.
I'm sure he feels
like the entire city's
turned against him,
like they just see
him as another cop
with an itchy
trigger finger...
What?
The city doesn't know him
like we do.
Maybe that's something
I can help with.
Timing couldn't be worse
for a surprise visit, Loretta.
Husband and wife tourists
were murdered
within a day
of each other.
I need to make
a statement.
Husband hasn't been
ruled a murder yet.
I'm not so sure they're
tourists, so keep that in mind.
You've come to convince me
that Special Agent Lund's
not liable
for Dave Dawson's killing.
No, that's
not my place, Zahra.
I've come to convince you not
to prosecute him on television.
You've seen the video?
Your friend shot
an unarmed man.
I know what it looks like,
but it's not the full story.
It's a familiar one these days.
Dawson was a machinist;
his wife, a bookkeeper.
They were on vacation.
Got caught in your
friend's crosshairs.
What am I missing?
Laura Dawson wasn't caught
in anyone's crosshairs.
She was killed
by a dangerous person,
an assassin planning to murder
someone else in the city,
the city you're charged
to protect.
We think the Dawsons
were connected.
Of course, you can prove this?
A lot of people are angry,
Loretta.
I'm angry.
You, of all people,
should understand that.
I do.
There is
a long list of victims
like Dawson,
many of them people of color,
who need us to take a stand.
I'm very aware.
But you don't want me to talk
about the erosion
of public trust.
No, you want me
to spin a tale
about an international assassin.
I want you to stop fanning
the flames
until all the facts are in.
Give Sebastian
the benefit of the doubt.
Because he's your friend.
You're right about
one thing, Loretta.
It's not your place.
You can't come asking
for special consideration.
I'm not asking
Well, what do you call it, then?
A favor?
A debt because you supported me?
I'm not a dealmaker.
That was my predecessor.
And you see where it put him.
All I want
is for you
to do the right thing.
Never been a challenge before,
until you started running
for mayor.
The right thing's to acknowledge
the public's trust,
hold law enforcement
accountable.
And if you can't see past
your loyalty to your friend,
we've got nothing left
to discuss.
Is anyone staring?
Yeah. Me.
Get in here already.
I'm sorry.
I'm trying not to stand out.
Trying not to stand out kind of
makes you stand out, Sebastian.
I mean, Isler took my badge.
He told you not to pursue
the investigation.
Isler's tied up
with Laura Dawson's murder.
I'll worry about him.
You just worry
about finding evidence
of a gun.
Well, hold on, hold on.
FBI's on the cutting edge
of forensic technology.
High density metal
detectors, sonar imaging.
What if Isler's
right and I'm wrong?
Sebastian, I can't be the only
one here who believes you.
You got to believe in you, too.
All right?
Let's walk the scene.
Not as a participant in
a shooting but as a scientist.
We're missing something.
(sniffs)
Okay, so, uh...
I was chasing Mattis.
I came around
this blind corner here.
That's when I...
I felt the bullet
pass by my ear.
Did you see Mattis shoot?
No, I-I mean,
I didn't see anything.
I-I leapt back for cover, here.
And then everything after that
was-was pure instinct.
I-I moved to this wall,
here, and then I, uh,
I spun around.
And Dawson was right there,
pointing a gun at me.
You did what you had to do.
If Dawson shot at you,
there has to be a bullet.
Why haven't we found it?
The trajectory
of the shot...
...would've had it slamming
into this wall, but-but,
even if it ricocheted,
it would've left some kind
of a strike mark or GSR,
some kind of a...
some kind of a sign.
What is it?
Sebastian.
Of course.
Yeah, we're thinking about this
all wrong.
Those-those forensic experts
and-and their equipment,
they were looking for
a traditional lead slug.
That's why they never found
the bullet.
Because it wasn't made of metal.
(chuckles softly)
Glass bullets.
Say again?
I was shot at
with a glass bullet.
Similar idea to what
sky marshals use on airplanes
so that they don't pierce
the fuselage.
Wouldn't that still leave
gunshot residue
on Dawson's body?
Well, not if he shot at me
with an air-powered gun.
See, these bullets, they're
designed to shatter on impact,
but they can be lethal in the
hands of the right shooter.
Like Mattis.
Okay.
How did Dawson end up
with Mattis' special gun?
Dave Dawson is a machinist,
with a workshop
and materials capable
of manufacturing
a weapon like
we're talking about.
Yeah, actually, we think
that he printed it.
From, uh, graphene
carbon fiber.
That's the trace that Wade
found on the Dawson body.
See, it's stronger
than metal,
but it's easy
to pass through security.
Perfect for our killer.
Mattis goes to meet
the Dawsons in the Quarter
to collect his weapon.
Sebastian gets in the way.
Laura scoops up the gun to
protect her husband and herself.
Mattis kills her
to tie up loose ends,
then takes the gun
to finish the job.
We locate Mattis,
we find the weapon.
Right. So, all you guys need
to do to clear my name
is to catch
an uncatchable assassin
before he uses
an undetectable gun
to kill an unidentified target.
Piece of cake.
Let's get to work.
You took Lund back
to the scene of a shooting
he's being investigated for?
I know it looks bad...
No, I don't think you do.
Or maybe,
maybe you just don't care.
You're operating
under a microscope here.
Every move you make
is being scrutinized.
Dawson was armed,
he shot at Sebastian,
and we found evidence.
No, no, no,
you found a theory.
Glass bullets
and an air-powered gun.
You're gonna need a weapon
to prove it.
Mattis killed Laura
for that weapon.
Which proves a connection
between all of them.
Mm.
Dawson crafted a gun
so that Mattis...
Yeah, so that Mattis
could-could pull off some sort
of high-profile
assassination, yes.
It fits his M.O.
Explains why he's
still in New Orleans.
Yes, and it conveniently clears
Sebastian of any wrongdoing.
You can accuse me of a
lot of things, Raymond.
I bend the rules, I
improvise, I go my own way.
(chuckles): Yeah.
But I would never lie
to protect Sebastian.
If I thought
he wasn't justified,
I would've taken
his badge myself.
Mattis has the gun.
He intends to use it.
Help us stop him.
Save two lives
and take down an internationally
wanted killer.
We can both get a win here.
Clearly, you're about to ask me
for something.
My team's been working nonstop
to locate Mattis' target.
Scoured every piece of chatter
coming in and out of the area.
No high-value VIPs
deserving of a Mattis hit.
At least none that we know of.
Well, if you think I know,
I don't.
But you can find out.
Deputy director
of the FBI
has access to intel
that I don't have.
I'm not a deputy director
anymore,
just a field agent like you.
Who can access the FBI database.
I know it's a big ask...
It's an impossible ask.
Look, even if I wanted to,
my clearance has been revoked.
You're a political animal,
Raymond.
You spent your entire career
cultivating relationships.
You have friends.
Yeah, which I intend to keep.
Unlike you, I still have
a chance of saving my career.
You keep saying things
like that.
Unlock the door, Pride.
You know something
about my career that I don't?
All I know is that this
conversation is over.
Now, unlock the damn door.
We're not done.
This isn't happening, Pride.
I'm not calling in a favor
to save your agent's ass.
You have to.
Why's that?
Because it won't
just save Sebastian.
It'll save Mattis' target, too.
And quite frankly,
Raymond,
it's the right thing to do.
All right.
Back in business.
Got us an I.D.
on Mattis' target.
How'd you come by that, King?
Friends in high places.
GREGORIO:
Colonel Rafiq Kassar.
Who is that?
Former Syrian intelligence
commander.
He cut a deal with the U.S.
PRIDE:
CIA's bringing him
to a black site at a nearby base
for questioning.
Former bosses
must've hired Mattis
to take him out before he talks.
Yeah, where's the colonel now?
On a CIA charter inbound for
Louis Armstrong International.
Landing in 30 minutes.
We need to get
to the airport
and take Mattis down.
Wait, what-- hold on.
That's-that's too risky.
Just contact the pilot,
get him to divert.
No good. Plane's on a closed
circuit communications blackout.
Then, I don't know, h-hack
their communications.
I already tried. It didn't work.
This is our chance to find
the gun and clear you.
I know. It's...
I was thinking about
it, all right?
And-and if one of you guys
gets hurt trying
to get my badge back...
Sebastian, appreciate
the sentiment,
but if we don't
stop Mattis now,
who knows how
much more blood
he'll spill? Let's go.
(security wand beeping)
SONJA: Air traffic control
just cleared
a private jet
for final approach.
LASALLE:
We're still five minutes out.
(tires screech)
Air-powered gun, glass bullets.
Mattis will have to get close
to his target.
There,
Gulfstream taxiing to a stop.
Any sign of Mattis?
Got him! He's behind the nose!
(gunshot)
NCIS! Get him in the car!
(gunshots)
Go, go, go!
(engine revs, tires screeching)
Find him, find him. Go!
What the hell?
Where did he go?
Hey.
Check it out.
We've lost him.
LASALLE:
No sign of this joker, Gregorio.
Copy that, Lasalle.
Mattis must've made it
into the terminal.
I'm inside now.
(woman speaking indistinctly
over P.A.)
MAN (over P.A.):
Bravo three red, Concourse D.
Bravo three red,
Concourse D.
GREGORIO: Just spotted Mattis,
B Concourse.
Don't move.
That's how you always
get away, huh?
It's pretty clever, actually.
After an
assassination,
the only people who don't get
scrutinized at the scene
are the cops.
Don't.
Put your hands up.
Now!
Get down on your knees.
Move, move.
We've been looking for this.
My phone
has been ringing off the hook.
A whole lot of attaboys.
Can't say I'm surprised.
Agencies across the globe
extending their thanks
to the man who brought down
Hans Mattis.
Ah, apparently,
that's the word going around.
Someone out there decided
to give me all the credit.
All I care about
is giving you Mattis' gun.
Sebastian's shooting is cleared.
He's cleared.
And you... can give him this.
Well, that calls for a toast.
No. Thanks. I'm good.
Looks like everybody won.
And you get to go back
to your bosses a hero.
You know, you were right about
a lot of things here, Pride.
But there was something
that you got wrong.
I didn't come out here to
investigate Sebastian's shooting
to cover my own ass.
I did it to cover yours.
Someone in D.C.
has it out for you.
Someone powerful.
Who expected this whole thing
to go the other way.
I'm guessing you don't know
who it is.
I don't.
But I was told to end your
career, whatever it takes.
That's why you backed me
off the Dawson case.
Looking out for me.
Trying to.
Didn't make it easy.
I do what I have to.
(laughs softly)
Well.
You might want to learn
to make adjustments.
I'm on your side,
but next time
you cross the line,
you won't be able to cross back.
Raymond?
Everyone's going to the bar.
You sure you don't want to give
this back to Sebastian yourself?
It'll mean a lot more
coming from you.
Watch your back.
(guitar playing)
* I was born on the river
* I was born a sinner...
No Dwayne?
No, he's grabbing Sebastian.
But don't worry,
I minored in mixology
at Quantico.
What can I make you?
(both laugh)
I'll have a beer.
And keep 'em coming.
It's been a long couple of days.
Yes, ma'am.
Uh, make that two.
And they're on me.
May I sit with you?
Hmm.
* To wash us all away
* Lord,
come and save us all... *
My people tell me Sebastian
was cleared of any wrongdoing.
Mm-hmm.
And I wanted to look you
in the eye and say
you were right.
* Mississippi risin'...
Thank you.
I also wanted to tell you
I wasn't wrong.
I did what I thought
was best, Loretta.
I held law enforcement
accountable.
And I'd do it again.
You have always been stubborn.
I have.
That's why I need someone
like you around me.
Someone to challenge me.
Give me perspective.
Hmm. And I've always
been contrary.
More than that,
I want you to believe in me
the same way you believe
in Sebastian.
What are you
asking me, Zahra?
Join my campaign.
Help me run for mayor
permanently, help me win.
We could do so much
good for the city.
(laughing):
I'm very flattered.
That's not a yes.
Okay, yes, but I'm not
gonna pull any punches.
Right.
If I think you're wrong,
I'll tell you to your face.
Okay.
And if you go
after my family again...
No, I understand now.
I-I won't make you
choose between us.
Thank you, brother.
All right, who's ready-ready
to get their drink on here?
Hey!
Pride said
first round's on him.
Sebastian's got the second round
since we cleared his name.
Where is he, by the way?
Pride's grabbing him,
but they're not here yet.
Guys, I think we're gonna have
to give Sebastian
a little more time.
* Risin', risin'
Yeah.
* Yeah, risin', risin'
* Oh, oh, oh, oh.
(knocking)
Hey.
Can I come in?
Oh, yeah. Of course,
yeah, come on in.
I know everyone's probably
waiting for me at the bar.
Obviously, you know,
I'm so grateful
for what you guys did, you know?
I'm just, uh...
Not in the mood to celebrate?
Yeah.
That's okay.
You feel like talking?
It's just, no one
ever mentioned to me
what it would feel
like, you know?
Well, it's not something
you can describe...
or plan for.
You took a life.
No matter how justified,
you carry that weight
with you forever.
Does it get any lighter?
With time,
you learn how to shoulder it.
That much I can promise.
It's a constant reminder
of what this work costs,
why it's important.
Yeah, the responsibility we have
carrying a badge and a gun.
Yeah.
Hmm.
Can you carry that weight,
Sebastian?
Continue to do the job?
Captioning sponsored by
CBS
Captioned by
Media Access Group at WGBH
access.wgbh.org
Uh-oh.